ABSTRACT Incidence of cancer during pregnancy is 1 in 1000. The most frequent carcinomas are the cervix, breast, ovaries, melanoma, thyroid, colon and hematological such as lymphoma and leukemia. Although cancer is not frequently associated with pregnancy, there has been a tendency to increase in recent years due to the progressive increase in maternal age at conception. Gastric carcinoma during pregnancy is a rare pathology, with an incidence of 0.016% to 0.026% in the series of cases from Japan, one of the countries with the greatest prevalence of this disease. Surgery is the least controversial type of oncologic treatment during pregnancy. In the last years, the adjuvant chemotherapy with antimetabolite drugs like the 5-fluoracile has gained relevance because it has demonstrated to improve survival in pregnant patients with gastric carcinoma. Unfortunately, the 96.7% of cases are diagnosed in advanced states because its symptoms can be misinterpreted as pregnancy induced nausea and vomiting characteristic of first half of pregnancy. We present two Clinical cases. The case of a 34 years old pregnant woman with 19 weeks and 3 days of gestation at the time of diagnosis of a gastric carcinoma in Bormann III stage, she was laparotomized with curative intentions at 21 weeks of gestation with intraoperative findings consistent with advanced metastatic disease and left-sided ovarian tumor suggestive of Krukenberg tumor. At 23 weeks palliative chemotherapy with FOLFIRI was initiated and it was continued until the end of gestation at 33 weeks and later in the puerperium; and the case of a 31 years old pregnant woman with 26 weeks and 6 days of gestation, she was admitted for the study of persistent vomiting during pregnancy with diagnostic confirmation of gastric adenocarcinoma Bormann III associated with intrauterine growth restriction, she was carried cesarean at 34 weeks. In the postpartum she was carried total gastrectomy with lymph node dissection of the celiac area and Roux-Y reconstruction. The objective of this report arises from the absence of clinical randomized studies about the management of this entity during pregnancy in consequence of the few cases available in the literature. This has been a cause of discrepancies between medical staff regarding therapeutics. There are some available literature series and case reports that guide management to a multidisciplinary approach in pursuit of more benefits and less risk in the context of the pregnant patient, with little cases reported as successful.